Documentation:

Recommendation System:
Goal of a Recommendation system is to suggest product or service to people

Types of Recommendation Systems:
Collaborative Filtering based
Content based Filtering


Collaborative Filtering
Further can be divided into two systems
Item-item based: Item-item filtering will take a particular item, find people who liked that item, and find other items that those people (or people similar to them) also liked
User-Item based: User-item filtering will take a particular person, find people who are similar to that person based on similar ratings, and recommend items those similar people liked.

Content based Filtering
Content based filtering find new items on the basis of previously liked items. the insights generated by the filtering is not as effective as collaborative filtering


Implementation:

Used user-item filtering
Find out the positive items by enlisting the the items liked by a user.
Score is predicted by finding similarities between users item to others item.
Sort the items with on the basis of scores
Negative scores in the beginning of the list and positive scores to the end


Technology Used:

LightFM as the module for Recommendation System
Numpy as the module for sorting and other misc. computations


Evaluation:

	•	Recall:
	◦	What ratio of items that a user likes were actually recommended.
	◦	If a user likes say 5 items and the recommendation decided to show 3 of them, then the recall is 0.6
	•	Precision
	◦	Out of all the recommended items, how many the user actually liked?
	◦	If 5 items were recommended to the user out of which he liked say 4 of them, then precision is 0.8

My Model:

Dataset used is Movie Lens
Model used is “WARP”
Train precision rate at k=10: 0.5432059168815613
Test precision rate  at k=10: 0.07665953040122986
Collaborative filtering(recall) training set: 0.92643565
Collaborative filtering(recall) testing set: 0.8580456

Precession is low is due to the fact that the test dataset shape is different from the training dataset shape. Therefore due to the reason of shape mismatch precision is low.

Example: User 0 is not matched to itself in the test dataset and instead matched to some different dataset

However Recall shows high association due to the fact that in binary case the probability that a randomly chosen positive example will be ranked above a negative example is highly possible. However the positive example showing in the top 10 result is highly unlikely(k=10)
